The Vigenère cipher (French pronunciation: ​[viʒnɛːʁ]) is a method of encrypting alphabetic text by using a series of interwoven Caesar ciphers, based on the letters of a keyword. It is a form of polyalphabetic substitution.[1][2]
First described in 1553, the cipher is easy to understand and implement, but it resisted all attempts to break it for three centuries until 1863. This earned it the description le chiffre indéchiffrable (French for 'the indecipherable cipher'). Many people have tried to implement encryption schemes that are essentially Vigenère ciphers.[3] In 1863, Friedrich Kasiski was the first to publish a general method of deciphering Vigenère ciphers.
The Vigenère cipher was originally described by Giovan Battista Bellaso in his 1553 book La cifra del. Sig. Giovan Battista Bellaso, but the scheme was later misattributed to Blaise de Vigenère (1523–1596) in the 19th century and so acquired its present name.[citation needed]
The first well-documented description of a polyalphabetic cipher was formulated by Leon Battista Alberti around 1467 and used a metal cipher disc to switch between cipher alphabets. Alberti's system only switched alphabets after several words, and switches were indicated by writing the letter of the corresponding alphabet in the ciphertext. Later, Johannes Trithemius, in his work Polygraphiae (which was completed in manuscript form in 1508 but first published in 1518),[4] invented the tabula recta, a critical component of the Vigenère cipher.[5] The Trithemius cipher, however, provided a progressive, rather rigid and predictable system for switching between cipher alphabets.[note 1]
What is now known as the Vigenère cipher was originally described by Giovan Battista Bellaso in his 1553 book La cifra del Sig. Giovan Battista Bellaso.[6] He built upon the tabula recta of Trithemius but added a repeating "countersign" (a key) to switch cipher alphabets every letter. Whereas Alberti and Trithemius used a fixed pattern of substitutions, Bellaso's scheme meant the pattern of substitutions could be easily changed, simply by selecting a new key. Keys were typically single words or short phrases, known to both parties in advance, or transmitted "out of band" along with the message. Bellaso's method thus required strong security for only the key. As it is relatively easy to secure a short key phrase, such as by a previous private conversation, Bellaso's system was considerably more secure.[citation needed]
Blaise de Vigenère published his description of a similar but stronger autokey cipher before the court of Henry III of France, in 1586.[7] Later, in the 19th century, the invention of Bellaso's cipher was misattributed to Vigenère. David Kahn, in his book, The Codebreakers lamented the misattribution by saying that history had "ignored this important contribution and instead named a regressive and elementary cipher for him [Vigenère] though he had nothing to do with it".[8]
The Vigenère cipher gained a reputation for being exceptionally strong. Noted author and mathematician Charles Lutwidge Dodgson (Lewis Carroll) called the Vigenère cipher unbreakable in his 1868 piece "The Alphabet Cipher" in a children's magazine. In 1917, Scientific American described the Vigenère cipher as "impossible of translation".[9][10] That reputation was not deserved. Charles Babbage is known to have broken a variant of the cipher as early as 1854 but failed to publish his work.[11] Kasiski entirely broke the cipher and published the technique in the 19th century, but even earlier, some skilled cryptanalysts could occasionally break the cipher in the 16th century.[8]
Cryptographic slide rule used as a calculation aid by the Swiss Army between 1914 and 1940.
The Vigenère cipher is simple enough to be a field cipher if it is used in conjunction with cipher disks.[12] The Confederate States of America, for example, used a brass cipher disk to implement the Vigenère cipher during the American Civil War. The Confederacy's messages were far from secret, and the Union regularly cracked its messages. Throughout the war, the Confederate leadership primarily relied upon three key phrases: "Manchester Bluff", "Complete Victory" and, as the war came to a close, "Come Retribution".[13]
Gilbert Vernam tried to repair the broken cipher (creating the Vernam–Vigenère cipher in 1918), but no matter what he did, the cipher was still vulnerable to cryptanalysis. Vernam's work, however, eventually led to the one-time pad, a theoretically unbreakable cipher.[14]
